# The Future of Artificial Intelligence

he future of AI is interesting but scary. While not a computer scientist, Stephen Hawking believed AI to be too powerful for people to use. Again, he is not a computer scientist, but he is considered one of the most intelligent humans to ever live. Is the future of AI like the Terminator? It is certainly possible. A computer with the same structure as a human would process information 10 times faster than people, but there really isn’t any limitation on the system being built. Human brains are only so large and can only have so many neurons, but an artificial system is basically limitless. However, like most of the unknown, humans will most likely do it if it can be done. So how far away is this human-like AI? No one may know, but Watson should be able to give you an answer.

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is being used in several key areas of business. Google, your car, your phone, and many more things are incorporating AI to improve the experience and behavior of their products. Understanding and developing AI systems offer new challenges compared to traditional software like the if-then rules you use in expert systems. The latter suffers from potential bias and the limitation of coding human knowledge using past experience but allows for transparency in the logic that produces an outcome and an understanding of the decision-making process. This transparency also allows for a formal and manageable way of identifying bugs and improving the systems in the process.

Modern AI systems may include millions of parameters and mathematical operations that make the identification and treatment of bugs extremely difficult. In this case, you typically trace back the values of the parameters that let the bug in the training data and the specific features of the data. In this sense, AI systems are better understood by their underlying training process and the resulting predictive ability.

As AI software applications are becoming pervasive and mainstream their real impact on individuals and societies becomes more apparent. The convenience and the solutions they provide will have to be balanced with the threats to privacy and risks of exposure to infrastructure flaws and weaknesses. Public concern is slowly growing, so you should expect to see more interventions for the regulator and government agencies as they attempt to formalize and regulate AI.
